README.md, before:

## Boost Concurrent Permutations and Combinations on CPU

### Primary motivation

Upcoming C++17 Concurrent STL algorithms does not include parallel next_permutation and next_combination. compute_all_perm and compute_all_comb make use of next_permutation and next_combination underneath to find all the permutations and combinations. Right now, function overload with predicate is not available. So < operator and == operator must be provided for next_permutation and next_combination respectively.

**Note**: Work is still ongoing. Library is not yet submitted for Boost review and is not part of Boost Library.

### Requirement
C++11

**Optional**: [Boost Multiprecision](http://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_62_0/libs/multiprecision/doc/html/index.html)
**Note**: Library need Boost Multiprecision for factorial(n) where n > 20. You either use the arbitrary integer(most safe) or fixed width big integer to accommodate the largest factorial. 

```cpp
// arbitrary integer
boost::multiprecision::cpp_int;
// 256 bit integer
boost::multiprecision::int256_t;
```

### Compiler tested
- Visual C++ 2015
- GCC 5.4 Ubuntu 16.04
- Clang 3.8 Ubuntu 16.04

### Formulae

```cpp
Total Permutation: n!
Total Combination: n! / r! (n - r)! 
```

Use compute_factorial for total permutation.
Use find_total_comb for total combination.

### Limitation

next_permutation supports duplicate elements but compute_all_perm and compute_all_comb do not. Make sure every element is unique.

### Examples

Example on compute_all_perm

```cpp
#include "../permcomb/concurrent_perm.h"

void main()
{
    std::string results(11, 'A');
    std::iota(results.begin(), results.end(), 'A');
    
    int64_t thread_cnt = 2;

    typedef empty_callback_t<decltype(results)> callback_t;
    concurrent_perm::compute_all_perm(thread_cnt, results, 
		[](const int thread_index, const std::string& cont) 
			{return true;} );
}
```

Example on compute_all_comb

```cpp
#include "../permcomb/concurrent_comb.h"

void main()
{
    std::vector<int> fullset_vec(20);
    std::iota(fullset_vec.begin(), fullset_vec.end(), 0);
    uint32_t subset = 10;
    
    int64_t thread_cnt = 1;
    
    typedef empty_callback_t<decltype(fullset_vec)> callback_t;
    concurrent_comb::compute_all_comb(thread_cnt, subset, fullset_vec, 
		[] (const int thread_index, uint32_t fullset,
			uint32_t subset, const std::vector<int>& cont) 
			{return true;});
}
```

### Why not pass in begin and end iterators?

Library need to know the container type to instantiate a copy in the worker thread. From the iterator type, we have no way to know the container. iterator type is not compatible: for example string and vector iterator are not interchangeable.

### How to use thread_index parameter in callback?

thread_index is a zero based and consecutive number. For example when thread_cnt is 4, then thread_index would be 0, 1, 2 and 3.

```cpp
#include "../permcomb/concurrent_perm.h"

void main()
{
    std::string results(11, 'A');
    std::iota(results.begin(), results.end(), 'A');
    
    int64_t thread_cnt = 4;
	int matched[4] = {0,0,0,0};

    typedef empty_callback_t<decltype(results)> callback_t;
    concurrent_perm::compute_all_perm(thread_cnt, results, 
		[&matched](const int thread_index, const std::string& cont) 
			{
				if(...) 
					++matched[thread_index];
				return true;
			} 
		);
			
	int total_matched = matched[0] + matched[1] + matched[2] + matched[3];
	// display total_matched
}
```

I'll leave to the reader to fix false-sharing in the above example.

### Cancellation

Cancellation is not directly supported but every callback can return false to stop processing.

### Benchmark results

Note: there is some overhead.

```
Results for permutation of 11 elements:
Total permutations computed: 39,916,800 - 1
int64_t type used.

next_permutation:  163ms
     1 thread(s):  175ms
     2 thread(s):   95ms
     3 thread(s):   48ms
     4 thread(s):   50ms
```

```
Results for combination of 14 out of 28 elements:
Total combinations computed: 40,116,600 - 1
int128_t type used.
 
next_combination:  608ms
     1 thread(s):  588ms
     2 thread(s):  292ms
     3 thread(s):  222ms
     4 thread(s):  171ms
```

Commit message:

Update README with diminishing returns and build cmd for GCC/Clang

README.md, after:

## Boost Concurrent Permutations and Combinations on CPU

### Primary motivation

Upcoming C++17 Concurrent STL algorithms does not include parallel next_permutation and next_combination. compute_all_perm and compute_all_comb make use of next_permutation and next_combination underneath to find all the permutations and combinations. Right now, function overload with predicate is not available. So < operator and == operator must be provided for next_permutation and next_combination respectively.

**Note**: Work is still ongoing. Library is not yet submitted for Boost review and is not part of Boost Library.

### Requirement

C++14

**Optional**: [Boost Multiprecision](http://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_62_0/libs/multiprecision/doc/html/index.html)
**Note**: Library need Boost Multiprecision for factorial(n) where n > 20. You either use the arbitrary integer(most safe) or fixed width big integer to accommodate the largest factorial. 

```cpp
// arbitrary integer
boost::multiprecision::cpp_int;
// 256 bit integer
boost::multiprecision::int256_t;
```

### Compiler tested
- Visual C++ 2015
- GCC 5.4 Ubuntu 16.04
- Clang 3.8 Ubuntu 16.04

### Build examples with GCC and Clang

```
g++     CalcPerm.cpp -std=c++14 -lpthread -O2
g++     CalcPerm.cpp -std=c++14 -lpthread -O2

clang++ CalcComb.cpp -std=c++14 -lpthread -O2
clang++ CalcComb.cpp -std=c++14 -lpthread -O2
```

### Formulae

```cpp
Total Permutation: n!
Total Combination: n! / r! (n - r)! 
```

Use compute_factorial for total permutation.
Use find_total_comb for total combination.

### Limitation

next_permutation supports duplicate elements but compute_all_perm and compute_all_comb do not. Make sure every element is unique.

### Examples

Example on compute_all_perm

```cpp
#include "../permcomb/concurrent_perm.h"

void main()
{
    std::string results(11, 'A');
    std::iota(results.begin(), results.end(), 'A');
    
    int64_t thread_cnt = 2;

    typedef empty_callback_t<decltype(results)> callback_t;
    concurrent_perm::compute_all_perm(thread_cnt, results, 
		[](const int thread_index, const std::string& cont) 
			{return true;} );
}
```

Example on compute_all_comb

```cpp
#include "../permcomb/concurrent_comb.h"

void main()
{
    std::vector<int> fullset_vec(20);
    std::iota(fullset_vec.begin(), fullset_vec.end(), 0);
    uint32_t subset = 10;
    
    int64_t thread_cnt = 1;
    
    typedef empty_callback_t<decltype(fullset_vec)> callback_t;
    concurrent_comb::compute_all_comb(thread_cnt, subset, fullset_vec, 
		[] (const int thread_index, uint32_t fullset,
			uint32_t subset, const std::vector<int>& cont) 
			{return true;});
}
```

### Why not pass in begin and end iterators?

Library need to know the container type to instantiate a copy in the worker thread. From the iterator type, we have no way to know the container. iterator type is not compatible: for example string and vector iterator are not interchangeable.

### How to use thread_index parameter in callback?

thread_index is a zero based and consecutive number. For example when thread_cnt is 4, then thread_index would be 0, 1, 2 and 3.

```cpp
#include "../permcomb/concurrent_perm.h"

void main()
{
    std::string results(11, 'A');
    std::iota(results.begin(), results.end(), 'A');
    
    int64_t thread_cnt = 4;
	int matched[4] = {0,0,0,0};

    typedef empty_callback_t<decltype(results)> callback_t;
    concurrent_perm::compute_all_perm(thread_cnt, results, 
		[&matched](const int thread_index, const std::string& cont) 
			{
				if(...) 
					++matched[thread_index];
				return true;
			} 
		);
			
	int total_matched = matched[0] + matched[1] + matched[2] + matched[3];
	// display total_matched
}
```

I'll leave to the reader to fix false-sharing in the above example.

### Cancellation

Cancellation is not directly supported but every callback can return false to stop processing.

### Benchmark results

Intel i7 6700 CPU with 16 GB RAM with Visual C++ on Windows 10

```
Results for permutation of 11 elements:
Total permutations computed: 39,916,800 - 1
int64_t type used.

next_permutation:  163ms
     1 thread(s):  175ms
     2 thread(s):   95ms
     3 thread(s):   48ms
     4 thread(s):   50ms
```

```
Results for combination of 14 out of 28 elements:
Total combinations computed: 40,116,600 - 1
int128_t type used.
 
next_combination:  608ms
     1 thread(s):  588ms
     2 thread(s):  292ms
     3 thread(s):  222ms
     4 thread(s):  171ms
```

### Diminishing returns on 4 threads

Main suspect is the Intel i7 6700 CPU is a 4 core processor where other applications are running. Need a multicore CPU with more than 4 cores to see diminishing perf gain issue persist!
